Add GBK charset description #8101 (#7416)
pingcap/docs: character-set-gbk.md

+---------+-------------------------------------+-------------------+--------+
| Charset | Description                         | Default collation | Maxlen |
+---------+-------------------------------------+-------------------+--------+
| gbk     | Chinese Internal Code Specification | gbk_bin           |      2 |
+---------+-------------------------------------+-------------------+--------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

SHOW COLLATION WHERE CHARSET = 'gbk';
+----------------+---------+------+---------+----------+---------+
| Collation      | Charset | Id   | Default | Compiled | Sortlen |
+----------------+---------+------+---------+----------+---------+
| gbk_bin        | gbk     |   87 |         | Yes      |       1 |
+----------------+---------+------+---------+----------+---------+
1 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

## MySQL compatibility

### Collations

The default collation of the GBK character set in MySQL is `gbk_chinese_ci`. Unlike MySQL, the default collation of the GBK character set in TiDB is `gbk_bin`. Additionally, because TiDB converts GBK to UTF8MB4 and then uses a binary collation, the `gbk_bin` collation in TiDB is not the same as the `gbk_bin` collation in MySQL.

> To make TiDB compatible with the collations of MySQL GBK character set, when you first initialize the TiDB cluster, you need to set the TiDB option [`new_collations_enabled_on_first_bootstrap`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#new_collations_enabled_on_first_bootstrap`) to `true` to enable the [new framework for collations](/character-set-and-collation.md#new-framework-for-collations).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make TiDB compatible with the collations of MySQL GBK character set, when you first initialize the TiDB cluster, you need to set the TiDB option [`new_collations_enabled_on_first_bootstrap`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#new_collations_enabled_on_first_bootstrap) to `true` to enable the [new framework for collations](/character-set-and-collation.md#new-framework-for-collations).
```

+---------+-------------------------------------+-------------------+--------+
| gbk     | Chinese Internal Code Specification | gbk_chinese_ci    |      2 |
+---------+-------------------------------------+-------------------+--------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)

SHOW COLLATION WHERE CHARSET = 'gbk';
+----------------+---------+------+---------+----------+---------+
| Collation      | Charset | Id   | Default | Compiled | Sortlen |
+----------------+---------+------+---------+----------+---------+
| gbk_bin        | gbk     |   87 |         | Yes      |       1 |
| gbk_chinese_ci | gbk     |   28 | Yes     | Yes      |       1 |
+----------------+---------+------+---------+----------+---------+
2 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

### Illegal character compatibility

* If the system variables [`character_set_client`](/system-variables.md#character_set_client) and [`character_set_connection`](/system-variables.md) are not both set to `gbk`, TiDB handles illegal characters in the same way as MySQL.
* If `character_set_client` and `character_set_connection` are both set to `gbk`, TiDB handles illegal characters differently than MySQL.

>     - For reading and writing operations, MySQL handles illegal GBK character sets differently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - MySQL handles illegal GBK character sets in reading and writing operations differently.
```

>     - For reading and writing operations, TiDB handles illegal GBK characters in the same way. In the SQL strict mode, TiDB reports an error when either reading or writing illegal GBK characters. In the non-strict mode, TiDB replaces illegal GBK characters with `?` when either reading or writing illegal GBK characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - TiDB handles illegal GBK character sets in reading and writing operations in the same way. In the SQL strict mode, TiDB reports an error when either reading or writing illegal GBK characters. In the non-strict mode, TiDB replaces illegal GBK characters with `?` when either reading or writing illegal GBK characters.
```

> For example, when `SET NAMES gbk`, if you create a table using the `CREATE TABLE gbk_table(a VARCHAR(32) CHARACTER SET gbk)` statement in MySQL and TiDB respectively and then execute the SQL statements in the following table, you can see the detailed differences.

Reviewer: `SET NAMES gbk` 和 `CREATE TABLE gbk_table(a VARCHAR(32) CHARACTER SET gbk)` 这两个操作是什么关系呢？

Author: @zimulala PTAL

Reviewer 2: 这两个语句都是执行下面表格中语句的前提，`SET NAMES gbk` 后就会有兼容性问题，`CREATE TABL` 是因为下面的语句需要对某个表进行 insert。

> For example, when `SET NAMES gbk`, if you create a table using the `CREATE TABLE gbk_table(a VARCHAR(32) CHARACTER SET gbk)` statement in MySQL and TiDB respectively and then execute the SQL statements in the following table, you can see the detailed differences.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, after `SET NAMES gbk`, if you create a table using the `CREATE TABLE gbk_table(a VARCHAR(32) CHARACTER SET gbk)` statement in MySQL and TiDB respectively and then execute the SQL statements in the following table, you can see the detailed differences.
```

|-------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| MySQL | `SELECT HEX('一a');` <br /> `e4b88061`<br /><br />`INSERT INTO gbk_table values('一a');`<br /> `Incorrect Error`       | `SELECT HEX('一a');` <br /> `e4b88061`<br /><br />`INSERT INTO gbk_table VALUES('一a');`<br />`SELECT HEX(a) FROM gbk_table;`<br /> `e4b8` |
| TiDB  | `SELECT HEX('一a');` <br /> `Incorrect Error`<br /><br />`INSERT INTO gbk_table VALUES('一a');`<br /> `Incorrect Error` | `SELECT HEX('一a');` <br /> `e4b83f`<br /><br />`INSERT INTO gbk_table VALUES('一a');`<br />`SELECT HEX(a) FROM gbk_table;`<br /> `e4b83f`  |

In the above table, the result of `SELECT HEX('a');` in the `utf8mb4` byte set is `e4b88061`.

### Other MySQL compatibility

> * Currently, TiDB does not currently support using the `ALTER TABLE` statement to convert other character set types to `gbk` or from `gbk` to other character set types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Currently, TiDB does not support using the `ALTER TABLE` statement to convert other character set types to `gbk` or from `gbk` to other character set types.
```

* TiDB does not support the use of `_gbk`. For example:

  ```sql
  CREATE TABLE t(a CHAR(10) CHARSET BINARY);
  Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)
  INSERT INTO t VALUES (_gbk'啊');
  ERROR 1115 (42000): Unsupported character introducer: 'gbk'
  ```

* Currently, for binary characters of the `ENUM` and `SET` types, TiDB deals with them as the `utf8mb4` character set.

## Component compatibility

* Currently, TiCDC and TiFlash do not support the GBK character set.

> * TiDB Data Migration (DM) does not support migrating `charset=GBK` tables to TiDB clusters earlier than v5.4.0.

Reviewer: 是 DM 5.4 不支持这个功能，还是 DM 不支持迁移到 5.4 TiDB 的表呢？

Author: DM 不支持迁移 `charset=GBK`表 到 v5.4 之前的 TiDB 集群

> * TiDB Lightning does not support importing `charset=GBK` tables to TiDB clusters earlier than v5.4.0.

Reviewer: 同上疑问

Author: TiDB Lightning 不支持导入 `charset=GBK`表 到 v5.4 之前的 TiDB 集群

> * Backup & Restore (BR) versions earlier than v5.4.0 do not support the feature of recovering `charset=GBK` tables. Any version of BR does not support recovering `charset=GBK` tables to TiDB clusters earlier than v5.4.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Backup & Restore (BR) versions earlier than v5.4.0 do not support recovering `charset=GBK` tables. No version of BR supports recovering `charset=GBK` tables to TiDB clusters earlier than v5.4.0.
```
